# CSE498R-Directed-Research

Comparative Study of Deep Learning Algorithms for the Detection of Facial Paralysis

Statistical analysis has shown a significant increase in the rate of brain strokes in recent times. But the time required to carry out the conventional methods to detect brain stroke on a patient requires both trained personnel and time. Any discrepancy in the process might also lead to fatal consequences. One of the most common symptoms of stroke includes facial paralysis. Currently, there is a lack of efficient models for detecting facial paralysis. To help make the stroke detection technique less formidable to at least a certain extent, this report presents a comparative analysis of deep learning algorithms for the efficient detection of facial paralysis. We have compared different pre-trained models to find the best suitable for detecting facial paralysis. In our research, we successfully ran tests on datasets consisting of facial images. We were able to attain the highest training accuracy and validation accuracy using the VGG-16 deep learning model, which was 99.67% and 99.37%, respectively.

In Bangladesh itself, stroke is the third leading cause of death, where compared to 2015, the death toll due to stroke increased by 13.7% in 2020. [1] Half of the stroke survivors face chronic disability. Damage caused by stroke may reduce if diagnosed early. One of the most common symptoms of stroke is facial paralysis. The main goal of our project is to find out which deep learning algorithm, among the three we compared, is the best for the detection of facial paralysis. We compared a total of three different deep learning models. As datasets for creating the models, we used images that consist of images of both stroke patients’ faces and normal faces. The three deep learning models used were VGG16, InceptionV3, and ResNet50. All three of these models showed the potential to be efficient for the detection of facial paralysis. It seems VGG16 is more effective in certain aspects compared to the other two deep learning models.

